[WHOOSHING]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
Let me tell you about
our special guest.
Sonia Barrett is well known
for her cutting-edge insights
into her work, which bridges
the gap between science
and spirituality.
She is the executive producer of
the award winning documentary,
"The Business of Disease."
Also, a noted author of
"The Holographic Canvas."
Sonia, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>SONIA BARRETT: Well, thank
you so much for having me.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in this field?
>>BARRETT: Well, you know what?
Curiosity, questioning.
>>NOORY: Killed the cat.
>>BARRETT: [LAUGHS]
Well, here I am.
But yes, curiosity coming from
a religious background, which
is very interesting, to
come from that standpoint.
And then many years later,
decide to ask a question as
to what is this life?
So I was going
through a divorce.
And I had to question,
well, what did I just live?
So that's what happened.
Then I just dived in with
absolutely no experience,
not being able to meditate, no
background whatsoever, to dive
in.
So that's really
how I got started.
>>NOORY: And you cover
this gap between science
and spirituality in a very
interesting way, don't you?
>>BARRETT: Yes.
And basically, I
approach everything
based on my own journey,
my own discoveries,
which sort of started
with not reading anything.
I think I looked at
two or three books
and decided that
there had to be a way
to find out more about what
this was without any books.
And I did know about workshops.
I didn't know about metaphysics.
I didn't know about
quantum physics.
>>NOORY: Wow.
You're self-taught.
>>BARRETT: I was.
And so that's really how
I came at all of this
and had to teach
myself how to meditate
and had some major
breakthroughs.
And so now, it helps me
to tell other people that
is very possible.
It is our birthright to
be able to ask questions
and to dive in.
>>NOORY: This planet
right now seems
to be having an amazing
amount of chaos.
It seems to be out of control.
How do we cope with
something like that?
>>BARRETT: Well, that's
a very big question
because there's so many layers.
And that's the trick here.
We're dealing with
a lot of layers.
So when we say, how do we
cope with something like that?
There are people who are
looking at things from one
particular perspective.
We have two different
sides here, basically,
in dealing with this.
So it depends on that person
and where they're coming from
and their perception
of what's going on.
Some people have bought
completely into the fear,
and they're living
in that space.
And then there are
other people who
are stressed because they're
encountering people who
are so invested in the fear.
So you see what I'm saying?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BARRETT: There's two different
situations here in terms
of how we would deal with that.
If you're not
invested in the fear,
then you have to find a
way to be able to step back
and to find some centeredness,
and some balance,
and to recognize why people
are so heavily invested
in the fear.
>>NOORY: I've got a friend
in St. Louis, Sonia,
who is afraid of everything.
This guy will send
me video clips
of every bizarre thing
he stumbles across,
but he believes everything.
And I keep telling him--
I said, you've
got to be careful.
You can't believe
all this stuff.
There might be a little piece
of truth to some of it in there,
but you just can't
believe it blanketly.
But the media doesn't do a
very good job explaining stuff
like that.
>>BARRETT: No.
The media actually
supports the fear.
This is the challenge
that we're facing.
The mainstream media, I would
say, is perpetuating it.
They are adding to it.
They are running stories,
which is precisely that.
They're running stories
as if it were a movie.
And people are heavily invested.
>>NOORY: Ratings, ratings.
>>BARRETT: Yeah, absolutely.
So you've got the
news that comes on,
what, several times a day?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BARRETT: There are
people that are addicted.
They are hooked on the news.
>>NOORY: All these
cable networks
that are on constantly.
>>BARRETT: Yes, yes, absolutely.
But people are invested, and
that's what we have to realize.
It's no different than somebody
being hooked on something.
A drug, food, or whatever.
After a while of being
locked in the house
like that,
particularly right now,
and they're watching this day
in, day out, all day long,
I mean, that's their
reality at this point.
So they're believing
everything that's being said.
And so that's the
challenge that's
being faced right now
with mainstream media
and what they're offering.
Not solutions.
>>NOORY: Is there
an agenda, Sonia,
to pollute our minds worldwide?
>>BARRETT: Well, again,
another interesting question
because I think that the agenda
has always really been there.
I think we're just in a
different stage of behavior.
We're in a different stage
right now on the planet.
But absolutely because
it serves a purpose.
When you have people
in fear in this manner,
it's easier to want
to control people.
And so whatever the
agenda is behind that,
it's working in the sense
that the majority of people
seem to be invested in the fear.
>>NOORY: When they're in fear,
they want to be controlled.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: They're
begging for help.
>>BARRETT: That's right.
They're looking forward
to somebody else
making these decisions,
coming up with solutions.
And that's what we see.
It's the savior program
running once again.
We are going to
fix this for you.
Just do what we tell you to do.
And that's what we're seeing.
So people are very
invested in, well,
what did they say that
we should do today?
What should we do?
And then the system
has them at that point
because what's being sold?
Death.
That's what's being
sold right now.
>>NOORY: And fear.
>>BARRETT: Death and,
well, the fear and death,
they're together.
People fear dying.
And it is our core fear.
All human beings
have this core fear
of not existing,
of annihilation.
And so where would
you then tackle
somebody for that
kind of control
but to hit them in the one spot
that all human beings fear,
not existing, their
life force being cut.
And so that's what
we're seeing right now.
And so yes, death is
being sold to people.
And that's what you see when
people step away from you,
maybe, in the
supermarket in fear.
They're afraid.
>>NOORY: They run away.
>>BARRETT: That's right.
They're afraid that
they might do something
that would affect them in a way
that would interrupt their life
flow.
>>NOORY: Do you remember
the movie "The Matrix"?
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Are we
living like that?
Are we in a matrix?
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
I mean, what is a matrix?
It's a system.
It's a construct.
So I like to say that
we are in a matrix.
If we look at the universe
or the planet, it's a system.
It's a system.
It's a construct that operates
by a specific set of rules
and conditions.
And so we can look at a city.
A city is its own unique matrix.
That's why you go from
one city to the next,
you can literally
feel that there's
a difference in each
town that you go to.
So we have all these little
systems, and bigger systems,
and so on, but we are.
From the perspective of the
movie, from that standpoint,
yes.
From what it was--
>>NOORY: No question about it.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
That's what we're
dealing with right now.
And it's like everybody
is sort of hooked up
to some sort of network.
A network, in this
case, a network of fear,
a network of a particular
belief that's being sold.
And then you have the
people that are probably
considered the outcasts,
maybe like myself, looking
on and going, wait a second.
No.
So you've got two different sets
of people starting to operate.
And there's always
been division,
but the division is greater
at this time simply because
of this level of fear
that we're dealing with.
>>NOORY: Gregg Braden, a
period on a Gaia program
called "Missing Links,"
talked about the matrix.
>>BARRETT: Mm-hmm.
>>GREGG BRADEN: The
feel that connects
all things, the web, the
net, Planck's matrix,
the divine matrix.
This field, it is the
release of energy itself.
Where did the field come from?
Well, it depends
on who you talk to.
The ancient Vedas, for example.
Over 7,000 years
before present, they
offer us a clue
that's not in science.
But they describe a time
before the beginning
when what they call is
Brahman, "The unborn in whom
all existing things abide."
"The one manifesting
as the many,
the formless putting on forms."
This is the way the Rigveda
describes this primal energy
that is happening as
this release of energy
that we call the Big Bang.
So what we're finding
is that the field that
fills the empty space, this
96% of the universe that
is believed to be missing,
it's not missing at all.
It is a form of energy
that's been with us
from the very beginning.
And this is why I think
this is so important.
And cosmologists at the
University of California
in Santa Cruz agrees.
What he says is that "the Big
Bang did not occur somewhere
in space, but it occupied
the whole of space."
"The Big Bang was
space itself, bursting
into a new kind of
energy," and that's
the end of the quote from him.
So with these ideas
in mind, let's go back
to that twin photon experiment.
What really happened?
Two photons, 14
miles apart, having
exactly the same experience
at exactly the same period
of time.
How did the information
get from one to the other?
Well, that's a trick question
because now we know it didn't.
It didn't have to get
from one to the other
because the information
was already there.
And this is the point.
This is the controversy.
This is the mystery.
It didn't need to travel at all.
It was already present.
The experiment is telling
us that we are still
connected to people
and places, no matter
where in the universe, where
on the planet they may be.
>>NOORY: And once we
understand that connection,
can we do remarkable
things as human beings?
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
And the flip side
of all of this is
that it's an opportunity
for us to enter
into what I call our super-self,
our supernatural self.
So everything that Gregg
Braden is speaking about
is definitely showing
that that possibility
exists for us to
step into a more
expansive level of operating.
And that's kind of
what we're seeing today
with people that
seem to be completely
separate from this
kind of understanding
and those people who are
saying, wait a minute.
There is more.
So it is definitely a
time of opportunity.
So despite how it looks,
it's an opportunity
for evolution for an expansion.
And I'd also like to say
that this thing that we need
to understand or to
remember is that nature
operates in a way of what
I call a default evolution.
So in other words,
when we are not
expanding or evolving-- say that
collectively the human race is
not, I think it
automatically starts
a process of helping to create
an expansion in the collective,
in the species, and in general.
And so we're also
looking at this up-stir,
this upgrade process
that's happening.
And we can also
see with technology
that this is so because we don't
view the body as technology.
We don't view the construct
as some incredible level
of technology.
Everything we do here
in terms of technology
is mimicking a bigger
construct, a system
that really is something
that you can't describe.
But it is a different level
and a different understanding
of technology, and that's
what we're doing right now.
We have the opportunity
to step into
these supernatural abilities.
>>NOORY: Sonia, what
is default evolution?
>>BARRETT: Well--
>>NOORY: What does that mean?
>>BARRETT: A
default evolution is
what I was explaining,
the fact that nature
finds a way to initiate through
the various cycles, right?
Because in this life, in
this reality as we know it,
it's all cycles.
We have our day and night cycle.
We have our 24-hour cycle.
We have our year-long
cycle, 365 days.
All of that
ultimately, in the end,
comes out to these bigger cycles
that we've heard of, these
26,000-year cycles, these
great cycles, and so on.
So it's a lot of--
>>NOORY: There's a pattern.
>>BARRETT: There's a pattern.
Exactly.
And after so many
of these cycles,
there are moments of great
expansion that need to happen,
and this is where
we are right now.
So it's sort of
this default process
of helping to shift
consciousness,
despite how things appear.
Now, it doesn't mean that
everybody is suddenly
going to be in the same
state of awareness.
Because when I
say consciousness,
I'm speaking of awareness,
different levels of awareness.
We have an opportunity, however,
to expand our awareness,
our consciousness.
Some maybe not as
much, but for others
who are in a deeper
state of awareness,
to continue the expansion
of that journey.
So that's the default process.
You don't do it naturally.
Nature naturally
starts to shift us.
And that's what we're seeing,
and it stirs up everything.
It's chaos right now.
>>NOORY: Oh, it's huge.
>>BARRETT: Good,
bad, and indifferent.
>>NOORY: It's huge.
>>BARRETT: That's right.
>>NOORY: And you
talk about what's
going on in the universe.
The structure of
time/space, which
is a Gaia television
program, of course,
talks about the Cycle of
Yuga right around this.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>NARRATOR: The Hindus offer
us probably the most exacting
of all the prophetic
systems of time.
It's called the Cycles of Yugas.
Many people have heard of
what is called the Kali
Yuga, in which we
are purportedly
well-established with
our modern society.
To understand the
Yuga principle,
we have to acknowledge a certain
experience in our own organism,
that there are phases in the
development of our organism
which are inherent
in and associated
with a certain passage of time.
For example, we reach
seven years of age
and our teeth fall out,
and we get new teeth.
We have nothing
to say about that.
And by another seven
years, suddenly,
we have completely reorganized
our pelvic region or glandular
secretions, and we
are now in puberty
and have achieved sexual
reproductive capacities.
The changes just seem to
occur in the nature of time.
This is a kind of genesis,
a process of maturation.
And eventually,
elimination through death
that we have nothing
to say about.
The Hindus extended this
cyclic phase to everything
in the universe.
They said that
everything is inherently
dominated and created by time.
>>NOORY: What's that
all mean, Sonia?
What's that mean to us?
>>BARRETT: Well, it's
what I was saying
in talking about cycles
because this is something
that we really don't look at.
We are so accustomed to--
while we're turning 7, as he
mentioned, we're turning 13,
we're turning
these various ages,
but it's evident that we have
to be networked into something.
Something is keeping
track of our process then,
our maturity, our
puberty, right?
That it naturally happens--
>>NOORY: Naturally.
>>BARRETT: --at a certain age.
Right, so all of--
>>NOORY: There's
a clock behind it.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
So there is this clock,
the cyclic system
that we are somehow wired into.
Is it our brains
that's wired into it?
It's the sensory system.
I like to say it's
a sensory system.
The brain, of course,
is part of that.
But the body is really
this technology,
this sensory system
that processes
emotions and feelings.
It's completely
networked or set up then
took to process
everything that we
will experience in this life.
This is the technology.
Who we are is
beyond the body, not
that we're lessening the body.
It has its purpose.
But who we are is beyond that.
And we're simply
utilizing the vehicle
to operate in this
zone, in this field.
And specifically, we're
talking about the Earth field.
And it's designed in a way
to process the gaseous laws,
to operate in the
gaseous laws here.
And I think it's
important for us
to really recognize it from
a level of this advanced--
to say advance doesn't
even do it justice--
level of technology
in terms of how
this vehicle and this
vessel is designed.
And he mentioned the
aging and the dying.
And the way I look at
this as is the fact
that there's a lot that we
don't understand, simply
because we are so programmed
to see reality as this one
particular version of reality.
So there's a version
of reality that's
prescribed for us to operate by,
to live by from birth to death.
But my question way back when
and now is, but is there more?
Is there a possibility of
going beyond those boundaries?
Are they simply boundaries,
what we understand?
>>NOORY: Some
people can do that.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Others can't.
>>BARRETT: Why is it
that others can't?
And this is why this
moment is so important,
that we start to open up to
realizing that there really
are no boundaries.
There really are no limitations.
What we are up against
is programming,
a lot of programming that
have been there for probably
thousands of years.
Who knows how long?
And it's all now
part of our genetics.
It's all part of our bodies.
It can all be
shifted, but it can't
shift until one comes
into a realization
of a deep questioning, to
give permission to our brain
and to the expansive part
of us to say, wait a second.
We want more.
We want to go beyond this
prescribed version of reality,
of aging, of dying, of
all of those things.
>>NOORY: Once you started
using this for your own life,
how did that change you?
>>BARRETT: It's been a
gradual process because you're
constantly expanding.
So it's not a final awareness.
It's every new awareness
that I came into,
every new questioning.
All it did was push me
further into deeper levels
of curiosity.
And so for me, what
I find is that it
makes me look at reality
completely differently
in the sense of it
being more of a game.
Being alive being part
of this experience,
it's more of a game.
This is how we learn to
design games and create games.
Being a human being is a game.
It's an opportunity.
And we have the
opportunity, like all games,
to figure it out.
Is there an outcome?
Is there a final outcome?
Or is it as we've
been programmed
to believe, that
you're born, you
go through this
process of puberty.
You have children, you do
this, and then you die.
I don't think so.
I think that there is
more to it than that,
and that's the conclusion
that I came to.
I started to realize--
I thought, well, no.
Where did all this come from?
So we're sort of
inundated with programs
going so far back that nobody
really knows, well, when did
we start being this program?
Where did this all come from?
So that's been my questioning.
And it just continues to
lead me down the rabbit
hole of discoveries, and
there is no going back.
>>NOORY: Let's hear
from David Icke,
who's on a new Gaia program
called "Escape the Matrix,"
who talks about the people
who have this ability and who
don't.
>>DAVID ICKE: What if
they had the knowledge
that if they can manipulate
your brain to decode reality
in a certain way, they could
ensure by that manipulation
that you created,
thus experienced,
thus believed in a
reality that suited them,
even if it didn't suit you?
And that is what
we're looking at.
We're looking at a human society
that has been systematically
structured to keep the
truth about reality from us.
So we are living the
illusion of a physical world
with all its sense
of limitation.
And I can't, and
it's not possible.
While from the shadows,
our perceptions
are being manipulated
and imposed.
Those perceptions
then dictate how
the brain decodes
that information
that we're receiving into a
reality that we experience.
So for instance,
the more you can
persuade people they're
little me and have no power,
the more they will live little
me, I have no power lives
and thus be no problem
to the prevailing order
and the prevailing authority.
>>NOORY: And that's what's
happening right now.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
That's exactly what's
happening right now.
And of course, the
brain is, as he said,
is taking its cue from the
perception and the belief
system.
So the perception
and belief system
are working hand in hand.
And if your perception is
very narrow, then of course,
your belief system
is also very narrow.
>>NOORY: Extremely narrow.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
So you have a lot
of restrictions.
There's a lot of restrictions
that we're programmed with,
which is what he was talking
about, what's not possible.
So we have a lot of don't,
don't, don't, or you
can't, or nos, and that's
what we're dealing with.
So people are stuck in a
particular version of reality,
a particular interpretation
of reality that's
continuously reinforced.
It's always reinforced
from, again,
the news, billboards,
everything around you.
The commercials.
Everything around you
reinforces the idea
of a particular
version of reality.
Oh, if you're between
the ages of 60 and 85,
you need to get this.
So even that kind of
information is reinforcing
just how long you can live.
So we're constantly
being reminded
of the limitations and the
vulnerability of our bodies
and just of us, period.
>>NOORY: Why are so
many people like sheep,
though, Sonia, and
they simply follow?
They follow the pattern,
the company line.
>>BARRETT: Well, I
think one, it's easier.
People tend to be
diehard a certain belief.
Like, whatever their
religious belief was.
My family believed that.
This is what I am.
No different than politics.
They're diehard,
whatever party it is.
Most people don't want that
kind of responsibility.
To step out of that space
is a great responsibility
because what happens is this.
You start realizing that you are
really the owner of yourself.
You start realizing--
>>NOORY: We always were.
>>BARRETT: We always were,
but they didn't get the memo.
So they are--
>>NOORY: Nobody sent it.
>>BARRETT: Nobody sent it.
Either that, or they
got it and they just
didn't look at it
because oh no, I have
to be responsible for myself.
And so there's a lot
of ownership then.
When you're taking
on responsibility,
that level of
responsibility for yourself,
there is a lot that you
have to come to grips with.
You have to face who you are,
the things that you've been.
Not for blame.
But in order to move
on to deeper levels,
you must see what you've been.
Now, even when I say
"who you've been,"
I need to clarify that because
we have reduced ourselves
to what I call our character.
We've reduced ourselves to
the identity, our identity,
the identity that's been
designed for us from probably
in the womb.
You're hearing Mom and
Dad from in the womb,
and then you come out.
And then there's your family,
and then there's society.
Everything is shaping and
telling you who you are.
Who is Sonia?
And that was a question
I had to ask myself.
Is there an authentic me?
You start realizing that you
are this compilation of data,
of non-verifiable information
that you've been operating by,
that you've been
living your life by.
And you've become your
identity, the idea of--
>>NOORY: How do we change
this so we don't become
such an obedient society?
>>BARRETT: You
can only change it
when you wake up to realizing
that that's what's going on.
And then you give
yourself permission
because this is all
permission based.
You, in the end, must give
your permission to yourself.
What happens when you give
that kind of permission?
Even your brain--
let's just work with--
>>NOORY: Your persona.
>>BARRETT: --your brain for now.
That starts to change.
It starts to get the information
that, oh, we're going
beyond the standard protocol.
We're going beyond the
blueprint of reality
that we've been carrying.
We're going beyond that.
So the brain that already has
access to everything, right?
It's already can see
everything, zero, 65 degrees.
But it's been filtering.
It's been filtering
information and what
you will see and
experience based
on the blueprint of reality
that you've been holding.
So when it gets the
permission that you're
willing and open now to
explore and to see more,
ah, new things start to happen.
New neural pathways
start being created.
You are now ready to see more.
But until one is
ready, it will not
happen because you can't
convince anybody of anything.
And this is what we're dealing
with right now, as we see.
Fear is are a core thing for us.
We are designed-- the vehicle
is designed to survive.
We are all about survival.
>>NOORY: Who came up with
this concept to do this to us?
>>BARRETT: Well, I'm not
sure if it's any one person.
I know there are people
that have other views on it.
But I think if we
look at what we
are in layers beyond this life,
I think we all came up with it.
I think we all came up with
it on a much bigger scale
because we're talking about
some incredible engineering,
to engineer this
vehicle and to engineer
this simulation or this
construct to really put this
together so that
we could come in
and do the one thing
that we're here to do,
to explore all the possibilities
of being a human being.
We cannot forget that.
So while you and I may not
explore certain possibilities,
there is someone else that will.
Anything that you could possibly
think of and not think of
has been explored
by someone here.
This is not an experience
where we are limited
in what we can experience.
Nobody says, oh, you can
experience these things,
but you can't experience
these other things.
Otherwise, the world wouldn't
be in a state that it is.
So there is a free
will to explore.
But you are exploring according
to your own awareness,
according to your
own consciousness,
according to where you are.
>>NOORY: Well, how
do we beat this
though, Sonia, when we're
constantly being bombarded
with all kinds of things
that they're tricking us
with in order for
them to accomplish
what they want to do?
How can the person pull himself
or herself away from that?
>>BARRETT: OK, well, for one, it
is what I was saying, that yes,
you have to want to.
But at the same time,
on the flip side,
because there's always
two sides of a coin,
we can also realize that this
is really creating a momentum.
It is really an opportunity in a
way that is pushing and forcing
people forward.
I mean, we can look
at what's going on
from a destructive standpoint.
But look at the
question you're asking.
It's forcing some people
to say, wait a second.
What is going on here?
It's sort of, in a way, waking
some people up to something
isn't right here.
So it is doing
something as well.
It's doing that prodding at the
same time for those people who
are in that mindset.
And the question you're
asking really, I think,
applies only to people
who are ready to say
something else is afoot.
I am ready to know.
It's really simple.
>>NOORY: Do we have that choice?
>>BARRETT: Yes, we do.
We do because it is about
defining who is "we" then.
When we say "we," do
we have that choice?
What has happened it
again is that we've
reduced the totality of
what we are to this body,
to this identity.
But what we are
is way bigger than
this minuscule interpretation.
>>NOORY: It's huge.
>>BARRETT: It's huge.
So yes, that part of
us has the ability
to do that when we
start to step away
from putting all of the power
into this character identity
self that's been
running the show.
This part of us is what's
really been operating down here.
That's the part of
us that feels pain,
that's in fear, that's
doing all of that.
It's that character self
that's running around doing all
these different performances.
So I think it's coming
into that realization that
wait a second, that is not
the totality of who I am.
And I don't mean from this
very fluffy standpoint.
I'm talking really looking
on and going, wait a second.
That is not the
totality of who I am.
Then you can step
back and you can
see the character, the role,
whatever you call yourself,
Sonia, has been playing.
Then there's an opportunity
for me to make changes.
It will impact your body
as well because what
I've come to realize is
the science behind this,
that aging, and death, and that
the whole process is connected
with not being aware.
When we come back into a state
of awareness, what happens?
You are engaging in an
incredible life flow,
not one that is this fully
charged battery where you come
in, and then it gradually
, wanes and then it fades,
and it dies.
The only reason why
that really happens
is because we stop expanding.
And when we stop
expanding, the brain
takes its cue from the
consciousness, which
is not much new coming in.
We start shutting down.
Now, how somebody
shuts down or expires,
I like to call it because
this is what expires.
A sensory system expires.
That expiration happens
simply because there
is nothing new triggering
this infinite life flow.
It doesn't go anywhere.
It's like-- I think
Gregg Braden, I believe,
was talking about before
about that experiment
that they did where they
realized the two atoms are not
different.
There were one in the
same, one in the same.
Well, when you think
of that, you'll
realize that you are that
thing that you're looking for.
You are that atom.
You are that timeless--
that has no name--
I can't even say thing--
that doesn't run out.
There is no such
thing as running out.
Time is an illusion.
It's a quantified
experience so that we
can have this human experience.
But when we open
up, and the more
we start to understand how
that's all being quantified,
then we have an opportunity
to step into greater
levels of experiencing.
And that's where that idea
of that supernatural self
starts to come into play.
What can we do?
And we've seen movies that
are trying to depict that.
Even the movie "Lucy,"
I think, was one.
Of course there's a lot of
Hollywood stuff in there.
But it's no mistake
that a lot of the films
that you're seeing now that
are edgy in that manner,
it's no mistake that
they're coming out.
Humans are being
triggered to remember
that there is
something much more
profound than the story you've
been told and the programming.
And we are at that
pinnacle right
now for some to
make that expansion
and go that way and some to
continue to remain in fear.
Either way, I
don't think there's
any right or wrong with
what that process is
or who does what.
But if one is ready
to really know,
there is nothing that is
stopping you, nothing.
Why is that?
Because this is all
about frequencies,
and vibrations, and
even a measurement
of your brainwave patterns.
There is a point in moving into
the more supernatural state
where I do think that we move
into different-- into higher
levels then of frequency, just
because the thought process is
changing.
Well, thoughts
measure a frequency.
Everything measures a frequency.
So what is the frequency?
What is the measurement
of the kind of frequency
that you're processing in terms
of what you believe and you
understand?
>>NOORY: Well, you
talk about programming.
We are being programmed.
And I had a chance to talk
with an expert on programming
of people.
Eldon Taylor.
My favorite poem is
the Robert Frost poem
of "The Road Not
Taken," where he
talks about this individual
looking at two scenarios.
And he took the road
less traveled by.
And in his mind, it
made all the difference.
Is that what you
also mean by choices?
Picking and doing something
that could reflect something
for maybe the rest of your life.
Maybe you'll regret
it, maybe you won't.
>>ELDON TAYLOR: I do.
I absolutely do.
I mean, I am convinced
and the data shows
is that we are
inculturated in such a way
that we live our
lives as though we're
answering a multiple-choice
question in school.
So we have A, B, and C.
Those are our choices.
Period, that's it.
I like to illustrate
that by telling
a story that reflects it that
I call The Flower Pot Story.
But the bottom line
comes down to this.
if I think I can
only do this or that,
then that's how I respond.
When I stop and
realize that there
are all these
other alternatives,
then my life changes.
It takes on a whole
different dimension.
>>NOORY: --different meaning.
And Sonia, Eldon is
absolutely right.
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
It's the idea, then, that
there is a blueprint.
I mean, collectively,
we are operating
by what looks like
a similar version
or interpretation of reality.
But in essence, each of us has
a unique blueprint of reality
that we're operating by.
And that blueprint is
filled in by the information
that you receive from your
childhood, from your families,
from the environment, all--
>>NOORY: From pressure groups.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: You name it.
>>BARRETT: The way you've
assessed yourself, all of that.
And so when anything is
shifted from your reality,
it becomes jarring.
When people leave that we're
used to having in our lives,
that's the reason why
it all hurts so much.
Because we don't realize that
when things are ripped away,
it's a readjustment that
has to happen because that
was all part of our blueprint.
Our houses, the way
our houses are set up.
When you move to someplace
else, you have to adjust.
Everything has to be
readjusted in this blueprint.
And the other part
of that is the fact
that we are creatures of habit.
We are pattern based.
We get addicted to habits,
rituals, certain behaviors.
And then we get stuck with
operating that certain way.
And it's very difficult
for most people
to shift out of an old model,
an old, comfortable model
of operating.
And this is why we see much
of what is going on today,
trying to get people to see
a different perspective,
see something else.
And especially when people are,
as they say, of a certain age,
they are really fixed in the
way that they see things.
So there is no room to really go
into a deep level of expansion
and see things a different
way and push those boundaries
because it's too unknown.
>>NOORY: It's deeply unknown.
>>BARRETT: People
don't like the unknown.
>>NOORY: It's deeply unknown.
Sonia, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>BARRETT: Well, thank
you so much for having me.
It was certainly a pleasure.
>>NOORY: We can use
these tools that you've
been telling us to
change our lives
and do it sooner than later.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]